Hey Everyone,

PingMonitor was supposed to be the free version of a piece of 
software that I was going to call AllMonitor, but it never 
happened due to library problems. Ah, well.

PingMonitor is still available and still free, however, and 
it's pretty good stuff.

PingMonitor is a simple asset-monitoring system that works by
pinging any desired target by IP address or DNS name. It can
be helpful to do both to troubleshoot DNS issues. Obviously,
all targets must be configured to return pings.

The nifty GUIs that I'd written for the Windows version of the
software had to be scrapped, as I couldn't find a Windows-based
solution for sending email from perl. I also can't find a
non-Windows solution for running Tkx, the library that makes
the GUIs possible.

So, I scrapped the GUIs for CLI configuration tools and moved
the project to Linux / Unix. It will run fine on either provided
the perl version is sufficient to support the modern thread system
and sendmail is properly configured.

That last is critical as it's the only way the software has of
sending email. I've send boatloads of email programmatically, mainly
from web servers, and it's easy if sendmail works. That, alas, is the
hard part.

I checked out how to configure it on the web, and decided it's a job
best left to a Unix / Linux Sysadmin. I'm an administrator in Windows
land but not Unix / Linux.

Installation is straightforward. Simply copy all files to the desired
folder, then run fix.pl and fix2.pl. The first one is probably unnecessary
due to the way Git does things. These programs convert to non-Windows
carriage returns and remove the file extensions (and add a couple
otherwise empty folders). You can't hurt anything by running either
more than once.

PingMonitor divides targets into groups and splits groups into multiple
pages of the report files. To configure the system you must first use
the addpage script to add at least one page (you can add more later) and
then use addgroup to add at least one group. Again, you can add more later.

You are at this point ready to add targets. Please note that you should
also use the setopt script to set the EmailFrom and EmailSubject options.

Once you have the system configured you will want to start the pingmonitor
script itself (this is the actual pinging engine) and the report1 tool, which
creates the reports. Both must be kept running at all times (see the p.s.
for a way around this).

PingMonitor itself runs at the "top of the minute", in other words at 0
seconds after the minute, or soon thereafter. The report engine does its
work at 30 seconds after the minute. Thus, it can take a minute or so
before you start seeing actual reports.

The report folder can be reconfigured using the setopt script. It can thus
be relocated to a virtual folder on a web server, if desired.

There is no limit to the number of targets that can be configured. Please
send bug reports or other feedback to lars@piumasoft.com.

Thanks,

Lars Brandewie  8/23/2020

p.s. If you don't want to keep pingmonitor and report1 running all the
time, there is a solution. Use the cron engine to call pingmonitor using
the -once argument. This will cause it to do its thing once and depart.
Configure it to be run every minute, on the minute.

The reporting engine understands the same parameter, but should be called
at 30 seconds after the minute.

Be sure to use the -once parameter for both calls or you will have an angry
sysadmin after you soon...

